docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: GridScout™
permalink: /
---

<link rel="shortcut icon" href="favicon.ico"/>
<link rel="icon" type="image/png" href="images/favicon-64x64.png" sizes="64x64"/>

GridScout™ is the console-based Google Maps search tool that you didn't know
you needed. It'll help you make better use of your paper maps. Without it, the
process of finding and marking places of interest is tedious. Let GridScout™
solve that so you can get on with your duty of planning for the impending
apocalypse, or whatever it is that you do.

![Screenshot of a GridScout™ search for newspaper
publishers](images/search-screenshot.png)

# Suggested workflow
1. Order [waterproof paper maps][mytopo] of your areas of interest. Have them
printed with an MGRS (aka USNG) or UTM grid.
2. Get some [clear plastic overlays][duralar].
3. Search for points of interest: "power plant", "tank farm", "distribution
center", etc.
4. Select individual results to see aerial and street-level views as needed.
5. Edit the GridScout™ search log (log/gridscout.log), removing any irrelevant
search results.
6. Using either the search log or the console output as a reference, plot
points on the overlays.
7. File the search log away for future reference.

# What, no GUI?
For its primary purpose of bulk collection of MGRS coordinates, simple text
output in a terminal works well. But GridScout™ does integrate with
[Gmap4][gmap4] to give aerial views in your web browser. From there, you can
easily access other online resources such as topographic and street-level
views, courtesy of USGS and Google Maps. Strictly speaking, however, these are
not part of GridScout™.

![Sceenshot of a GridScout™ aerial view of a petroleum
refinery](images/aerial-screenshot.png)

# Seriously, paper maps?
Going into battle dependent on vulnerable infrastructure is unwise. So yes,
actual printed maps and overlays are advantageous. They work independently of
power and communication grids. They're durable, highly portable, and
low-maintenance. Fancy technology has its place, but printed maps excel in the
field. With GridScout™, you can apply the technology without the
vulnerabilities. That is, it puts your computer and the Internet to good use
now, and it helps you record on more durable media the information that you'll
need later.

# Why MGRS coordinates?
The [Military Grid Reference System][mgrs] is a whole-world variant of the
UTM coordinate system. It's used by NATO militaries because it's concise,
minimizes distortion, and makes for easy math. Latitude and longitude are
greatly lacking in these qualities. Map vendors such as [MyTopo][mytopo] allow
you to have your maps printed with a UTM grid, and for the aforementioned
reasons I suggest that you take them up on that option.

# How do I get GridScout™?
It's on [GitHub][github], where you'll find installation instructions. And it's
free!

# Are my searches secure?
Searches go through Google. They are encrypted so that only you and Google can
read them. They're associated with whatever Google account you choose to use
when you create a Google Places API key. If you require complete anonymity,
then create a Google account that is not associated in any way with your actual
identity. Then use it only in public places like libraries and coffee shops,
and only while wearing a mask; or use an anonymous VPN service such as
[ProtonVPN][protonvpn] or [Tor][tor], which will conceal your location with
less trouble. Lastly, when setting your base location, don't use your exact
actual location unless you're okay with Google knowing it. Truncate your
coordinates to 10-kilometer precision if you like, or set a base location on
the other side of town; your search results won't be drastically affected.

Aerial views are accessed through [Gmap4][gmap4]. When you access the aerial
view of a location, your web browser will submit that location's MGRS
coordinate in an encrypted manner. Your base location and your search queries
are never shared with Gmap4. Depending on your network and the configuration of
your browser, it may be possible for Gmap4 to determine your actual location.
If this is a problem for you, then an anonymous VPN is once again recommended.

# Who are you, and why did you create GridScout™?
My name is [Jeremy Reeder][jeremy]. I take an interest in the security of my home and my
community, so I've made a point of learning what it takes to protect them. You
may wish to do the same. Perhaps you can find others around you who share this
goal, and work together. Such a group may be called an emergency-response team,
or a militia.

I created GridScout™ to help me in my role as a community defense analyst for
[my local battalion][battalion] of Idaho's unorganized militia. I share it to
help the people of other communities in the development of their own defense
capabilities.

# How can I learn more about defense intelligence?
Read [SHTF Intelligence: An Intelligence Analyst's Guide to Community
Intelligence][shtf-intel], by Samuel Culper. It'll teach you the following:
- What information to look for and how to find it
- How to put your maps and overlays to good use
- How to generate useful intel reports
- How to organize an intel team

# Legal notice
Icon made by [Freepik][freepik] from [flaticon.com][flaticon] is licensed by
[Creative Commons BY 3.0][icon-license].

All other content © 2018 Jeremy Reeder.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

The software is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, express or
implied, including but not limited to the warranties of merchantability,
fitness for a particular purpose and noninfringement. In no event shall the
authors or copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages or other
liability, whether in an action of contract, tort or otherwise, arising from,
out of or in connection with the software or the use or other dealings in the
software.


[battalion]:    https://www.facebook.com/adacountylightfootmilitia/
[duralar]:      https://smile.amazon.com/gp/product/B0015LWRZY
[github]:       https://github.com/jeremyreeder/gridscout/blob/master/README.md
[freepik]:      https://www.freepik.com
[flaticon]:     https://www.flaticon.com
[gmap4]:        https://mappingsupport.com/p/gmap4-free-online-topo-maps.html
[icon-license]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0
[jeremy]:       mailto:jjrxyz+gridscout@gmail.com?Subject=GridScout™
[mgrs]:         https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Military_Grid_Reference_System
[mytopo]:       https://www.mytopo.com
[protonvpn]:    https://protonvpn.com
[shtf-intel]:   https://forwardobserver.com/product/community-intelligence-program-print-version/
[tor]:          https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tor_(anonymity_network)

Commit message:

Moved software license to a separate file

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: GridScout™
permalink: /
---

<link rel="shortcut icon" href="favicon.ico"/>
<link rel="icon" type="image/png" href="images/favicon-64x64.png" sizes="64x64"/>

GridScout™ is the console-based Google Maps search tool that you didn't know
you needed. It'll help you make better use of your paper maps. Without it, the
process of finding and marking places of interest is tedious. Let GridScout™
solve that so you can get on with your duty of planning for the impending
apocalypse, or whatever it is that you do.

![Screenshot of a GridScout™ search for newspaper
publishers](images/search-screenshot.png)

# Suggested workflow
1. Order [waterproof paper maps][mytopo] of your areas of interest. Have them
printed with an MGRS (aka USNG) or UTM grid.
2. Get some [clear plastic overlays][duralar].
3. Search for points of interest: "power plant", "tank farm", "distribution
center", etc.
4. Select individual results to see aerial and street-level views as needed.
5. Edit the GridScout™ search log (log/gridscout.log), removing any irrelevant
search results.
6. Using either the search log or the console output as a reference, plot
points on the overlays.
7. File the search log away for future reference.

# What, no GUI?
For its primary purpose of bulk collection of MGRS coordinates, simple text
output in a terminal works well. But GridScout™ does integrate with
[Gmap4][gmap4] to give aerial views in your web browser. From there, you can
easily access other online resources such as topographic and street-level
views, courtesy of USGS and Google Maps. Strictly speaking, however, these are
not part of GridScout™.

![Sceenshot of a GridScout™ aerial view of a petroleum
refinery](images/aerial-screenshot.png)

# Seriously, paper maps?
Going into battle dependent on vulnerable infrastructure is unwise. So yes,
actual printed maps and overlays are advantageous. They work independently of
power and communication grids. They're durable, highly portable, and
low-maintenance. Fancy technology has its place, but printed maps excel in the
field. With GridScout™, you can apply the technology without the
vulnerabilities. That is, it puts your computer and the Internet to good use
now, and it helps you record on more durable media the information that you'll
need later.

# Why MGRS coordinates?
The [Military Grid Reference System][mgrs] is a whole-world variant of the
UTM coordinate system. It's used by NATO militaries because it's concise,
minimizes distortion, and makes for easy math. Latitude and longitude are
greatly lacking in these qualities. Map vendors such as [MyTopo][mytopo] allow
you to have your maps printed with a UTM grid, and for the aforementioned
reasons I suggest that you take them up on that option.

# How do I get GridScout™?
It's on [GitHub][github], where you'll find installation instructions. And it's
free!

# Are my searches secure?
Searches go through Google. They are encrypted so that only you and Google can
read them. They're associated with whatever Google account you choose to use
when you create a Google Places API key. If you require complete anonymity,
then create a Google account that is not associated in any way with your actual
identity. Then use it only in public places like libraries and coffee shops,
and only while wearing a mask; or use an anonymous VPN service such as
[ProtonVPN][protonvpn] or [Tor][tor], which will conceal your location with
less trouble. Lastly, when setting your base location, don't use your exact
actual location unless you're okay with Google knowing it. Truncate your
coordinates to 10-kilometer precision if you like, or set a base location on
the other side of town; your search results won't be drastically affected.

Aerial views are accessed through [Gmap4][gmap4]. When you access the aerial
view of a location, your web browser will submit that location's MGRS
coordinate in an encrypted manner. Your base location and your search queries
are never shared with Gmap4. Depending on your network and the configuration of
your browser, it may be possible for Gmap4 to determine your actual location.
If this is a problem for you, then an anonymous VPN is once again recommended.

# Who are you, and why did you create GridScout™?
My name is [Jeremy Reeder][jeremy]. I take an interest in the security of my home and my
community, so I've made a point of learning what it takes to protect them. You
may wish to do the same. Perhaps you can find others around you who share this
goal, and work together. Such a group may be called an emergency-response team,
or a militia.

I created GridScout™ to help me in my role as a community defense analyst for
[my local battalion][battalion] of Idaho's unorganized militia. I share it to
help the people of other communities in the development of their own defense
capabilities.

# How can I learn more about defense intelligence?
Read [SHTF Intelligence: An Intelligence Analyst's Guide to Community
Intelligence][shtf-intel], by Samuel Culper. It'll teach you the following:
- What information to look for and how to find it
- How to put your maps and overlays to good use
- How to generate useful intel reports
- How to organize an intel team

# Legal notice
Site icon made by [Freepik][freepik] from [flaticon.com][flaticon] is licensed
by [Creative Commons BY 3.0][icon-license].

All other content © 2018 Jeremy Reeder. Use and distribution are subject to the
terms of the [MIT License][mit-license].


[battalion]:    https://www.facebook.com/adacountylightfootmilitia/
[duralar]:      https://smile.amazon.com/gp/product/B0015LWRZY
[github]:       https://github.com/jeremyreeder/gridscout/blob/master/README.md
[freepik]:      https://www.freepik.com
[flaticon]:     https://www.flaticon.com
[gmap4]:        https://mappingsupport.com/p/gmap4-free-online-topo-maps.html
[icon-license]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0
[jeremy]:       mailto:jjrxyz+gridscout@gmail.com?Subject=GridScout™
[mgrs]:         https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Military_Grid_Reference_System
[mit-license]:  https://github.com/jeremyreeder/gridscout/blob/master/LICENSE.md
[mytopo]:       https://www.mytopo.com
[protonvpn]:    https://protonvpn.com
[shtf-intel]:   https://forwardobserver.com/product/community-intelligence-program-print-version/
[tor]:          https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tor_(anonymity_network)
