docs/volunteering.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Volunteering in Your Community
permalink: /volunteering
---

<link rel="shortcut icon" href="favicon.ico"/>
<link rel="icon" type="image/png" href="images/favicon-64x64.png" sizes="64x64"/>

# How can I protect my community?
Many rural communities have volunteer fire departments. They depend on
volunteers like you and me to protect the people from wildfires.

Some sheriffs proactively establish a posse of vetted volunteers. The posse
trains with the officers on a regular basis and assists as needed with the
policing of the county.

FEMA encourages and trains Community Emergency Response Teams (CERTs).

Some amateur-radio groups, such as the Amateur Radio Emergency Service (ARES),
provide emergency communication services. They often coordinate with other
emergency services such as the American Red Cross.

In free states, of which there are fewer these days, an armed and trained
militia consisting of able-bodied citizens has the duty to defend the state.
This has long been the case, and it is now supported by the Second Amendment to
the United States Constitution, as well as by the constitutions of many U.S.
states and some other countries, as well as by many supporting federal and
state laws.

These are just a few of the ways that you may be able to contribute to the
defense of your community. Make your intentions and abilities known, and I'm
sure you can find some good way to help.

Commit message:

Referenced search-and-rescue units

docs/volunteering.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Volunteering in Your Community
permalink: /volunteering
---

<link rel="shortcut icon" href="favicon.ico"/>
<link rel="icon" type="image/png" href="images/favicon-64x64.png" sizes="64x64"/>

# How can I protect my community?
- Many rural communities have volunteer fire departments. They depend on
volunteers like you and me to protect the people from wildfires.

- Some sheriffs proactively establish a posse of vetted volunteers. The posse
trains with the officers on a regular basis and assists as needed with the
policing of the county.

- FEMA encourages and trains Community Emergency Response Teams (CERTs).

- Some amateur-radio groups, such as the Amateur Radio Emergency Service (ARES),
provide emergency communication services. They often coordinate with other
emergency services such as the American Red Cross.

- Volunteer search-and-rescue units, including Civil Air Patrol, provide a
critical service for lost hikers and other missing or injured people.

An armed and trained militia consisting of able-bodied citizens has the duty to
defend their State. This has long been the case, and it is presently supported
by the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution, as well as by the
constitutions of many U.S. states and some other countries, and by many
supporting federal and state laws.

These are just a few of the ways that you may be able to contribute to the
defense of your community. Make your intentions and abilities known, and I'm
sure you can find some good way to help. In any of these endeavors, you'd do
well to have good maps and useful overlays. Let [GridScout™][gridscout] help.


[gridscout]: /
